Package explainer (#110)
w3c/miniapp: specs/packaging/docs/explainer.md

# MiniApp Package explainer

> > Note: This document serves as a supplementary explanation of the [MiniApp Packaging](https://github.com/w3c/miniapp/blob/gh-pages/specs/packaging/index.html) spec. If there is any inconsistency with the spec, you should consider the spec to be authoritative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: This document serves as a supplementary explanation of the [MiniApp Packaging](https://w3c.github.io/miniapp/specs/packaging/) spec. If there is any inconsistency with the spec, you should consider the spec to be authoritative.
```

Author: accepted

## Authors

Yongjing Zhang (Huawei)

## 1. Introduction

### What is this?

A MiniApp Package is a [ZIP](https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT)-based container file that wraps a set of files (JS code, components, resources, configurations, styles) comprising the whole MiniApp. 
It can be delivered to a hosting platform through different channels (e.g. web, app store, offline), then rendered/executed by the hosting platform.

### Why should we care?

A MiniApp Package contains all necessary information used by a hosting platform to check, load and execute the MiniApp properly. A standardized format is necessary so that a MiniApp package generated by different developers or tools can be deployed on different hosting platforms (e.g. super-apps, or native-os frameworks) in a compatible and consistent way. The spec shall define the following aspects to ensure interoperability:
* minimum set of files for a MiniApp to be runnable
* optional files for enhanced features

> * a well-defined folder structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a well-defined file and directory structure
```

Author: accepted
